There we go. Very good. Hey, everyone. Thanks for joining us. We're going to get started
in just a few seconds. We're going to give folks a few seconds to pop in. Happy Wednesday,
wherever you are. Drop where you're coming from in the chat. I'm from Philadelphia and
my colleague is from Vancouver. Very good. Let's get going. So before the presentation,
some helpful information. The recording of this presentation will be available right
here immediately following the presentation. You can put questions in the chat or you can
ask them anonymously through our Slido link. For more information about Academy because
we can only cover so much in this period of time, just go to Posit.co backslash Academy.
And we already got a question about this. So I want to call out Posit Academy is currently
only offered to groups of learners. We're working through how to expand the offering,
but the group experience is a core part of the Academy experience. So again, it's currently
offered only to groups of learners. And if you're not familiar with Academy, we introduced
Posit Academy to the world last year for groups who want to learn R and we're thrilled to
have recently introduced Python curriculum, which is why we're here. So the presentation
is great for folks who are unfamiliar with Academy. This is a great sort of introductory
presentation. Groups of data professionals who are interested in exploring training solutions
and organizations that want to become more data driven, specifically with code based
data science. So R and Python. With all that said, I'll hand the presentation over to my
colleague, Daniel Chen, who is a data science educator on the Posit team.
All right. All right. Hello, everyone. Good day. So I'm Daniel. I'm currently a postdoctoral
teaching fellow at the University of British Columbia. And I am also a data science educator
here at Posit. And so I wanted to start off today by just doing a quick answer of why
you should learn Python. And the short answer is Python is just objectively popular. So
it's ranking number one here on the TOBI index. And it's above languages like C, C++ and JavaScript.
So it is a very popular programming language. And just for reference, R is currently ranked
number 16. So it's still up there, but it's just not number one. Right. And Python, even
though it's number one in popularity, the way it got to its popularity is actually being
second best for pretty much everything. And so here's a response from Van Lindberg, who
was the former general counselor for the Python Software Foundation. He just stepped down
in April. And even he had echoed this statement about it's really like the second best for
everything. If you don't know where you're going in the future, Python's a pretty safe
bet in terms of tooling. And so today I want to talk about how do we train a data scientist
in Python. And traditionally we've done things like workshops. This is generally my background
of teaching. It's all coming from workshops. And then also what we've done in the past
is or what you've probably taken in the past is stuff like an online course. And if you
sort of think back on your experiences with taking workshops or online courses, essentially
if you never got to use the work that you were learning, chances are you either retook
the same workshop or online course or you sort of just let your knowledge taper off.
And that's something that we know can happen. We actually know a lot about learning. And
this is one of the books I'm currently reading right now, which is called How Learning Happens.
And it consolidates a lot of the educational literature into a single book and talks about
a lot of learning theory related things. I would say if you want to talk about other
resources and books about learning, like we can talk about it in Q&A as well. And then
even internally at Posit, so here's my supervisor Garrett, we've taught workshops from the company's
perspective and we've actually taught them almost like too well. And then even like myself,
I've taught workshops and my body of work is actually, I've done this workshop teaching
stuff for my dissertation work. So on the left hand side here, here's an example of
what I would expect somebody to get out of a short workshop doing Python and data science.
And so here's like a script I want you to be able to run. I want you to be able to load
some data sets. I want you to be able to filter, save out a data set to start the process
of a pipeline, identify how to process and clean data, plot it, maybe fit an EDA exploratory
model and then look at its output. And so there's like seven things that I just mentioned.
And what I found in even my own dissertation work was if I took your self report on how
confident you are with those seven tasks I just asked, and I asked you pre-survey, pre-workshop,
after the workshop and then four months out, it actually turns out that like, yes,
workshops seem like they work. Everyone believes like they can do all of these tasks.
And then essentially four to four plus months out, you can see like the response is almost
back to baseline. And it's because like people, it just seems like people aren't really using
this stuff even though we put a lot of effort into teaching this information.
And so how do we come back to this? Like it's one of the core principles that we're trying
to address here at Academy. And that notion of you taking a course like a workshop or something
short term and forgetting it or having that information decay, it's actually, we know this
is a known process, something that happens. And so here is like the forgetting curve where
on the y-axis here is, you know, arbitrary measurement of your ability to master a topic.
And then the x represents time. And so usually right after you learn something,
you probably have a lot of pretty high recall on what was being taught.
And then what ends up happening is if you don't practice the task again,
you essentially will forget, slowly forget the information that's being taught. And so one of
the things and key components here at Academy, what we try to do is put in regular points of feedback,
or sorry, regular points of practice, just so you can re-bring back that information back to you.
And so you don't have to relearn everything from scratch. Just a little bump is enough to say,
oh yeah, I remember how this works. And then we, in Academy, we tried to do this over and over
and over again, up to the point where you are pretty much understand that material,
or at least that's the goal. And if you've ever been in a scenario as you've been learning
something on your own, and you end up in a scenario where like, I've just been struggling
trying to learn this for like two or three weeks. And then like, I can't really tell you why or how
it happened, but like, I read this one sentence that I've been reading over and over again,
and all of a sudden everything clicked. And so that's really one of, that's something that
you can notice about yourself. And it's coming from you reiterating and practicing
and re-reading the materials and going through the materials multiple times.
And so there is this saying about like neurons that fire together, wire together, right? So if
we end up in a situation where like we have two things that's just connected in our brains,
and we focus on practicing one set, the part that we're practicing will actually get strengthened.
And then the part that we don't practice will eventually fade off, up until the point where
learning a body of material. And so again, like that's one of the main things that we're
trying to do here in Academy is teach you a topic and provide regular points of practice
for you to achieve some type of mastery. And so just like with any skill, you need practice,
but you also need practice over time. And so like, you know, one of the analogies that we have
in Academy is like, it's very similar to playing musical instruments. So like I've also played the
piano when I was a kid, and it's, you do have to practice this on a regular basis for you to just
be able to play a piece, right? And no matter how well you play, you're not going to be able to
play a piece, right? And no matter how well you are, like I was terrible at sight reading,
so I couldn't even fake it when I showed up to class anyway. So you really do need
practice and practice over time. And data science is one of those skills that you, again,
you need to practice it, and then you need some mechanism to kind of guide you over an extended
period of time, not just take like a short-term block of materials to learn, and then sort of
like, where do you go from there? So what about online courses? We've heard about massive online,
open online courses. Those usually run for multiple weeks as well. But the problem with
MOOCs is people, the completion rate for MOOCs is very, very poor. And so people get really excited,
especially if it's a very popular and free class, like everyone's excited at the beginning.
And then over, you know, a couple of weeks, you know, life kicks in. It just becomes really hard
and motivated to sort of just keep along with the actual course. And so that's the other thing that
ends up being really important is practice does also require motivation. And so what we try to
foster internal and external motivation through academy as well, and that's sort of the reason why
big group learning is a core component of what makes academy work, along with some other stuff
that I'll talk about in a bit as well. And so if we think about the traditional teaching format,
so I just finished one term of a class, and I'm teaching a new one right now, and I'm putting
together these slide decks, I just realized, like, yes, the two courses that I'm just teaching,
they're pretty much taught in two different styles. And the one that I just ended up finishing follows
this more traditional model where I as the educator have information to give you as the student.
But then it's really, like, up to the student to do the actual learning. And it actually takes a lot
of work on the students to actually go and master the information that I'm trying to provide them.
And, you know, I sort of realized putting together these slides, like, yeah, I actually just was one
of the trainers that actually fell into this trap of, you know, being, conveying information
in one direction and then sort of like, okay, if the student needs help, they'll come back to me.
But at academy, we try to focus on this actual loop and be really explicit about it and have the
educator also be part of that loop. And that's sort of why we've seen, like, a bunch of great
results over the last year with our, when we first launched. And so how do we as humans actually
learn regular skills? Well, there's also a process for this that is, that a lot of industries and
fields use, like, for example, in medicine or any of the skill-based trainings. There's
apprenticeships, internships, residencies, or coaching. So how do we go and then apply that
to learning Python for data science? Well, here's the key features of academy. We have
individually-paced tutorials. And the tutorials are set in such a way where they're supposed to be,
they are, you do need to spend time to work through them. It's typically under an hour's worth
of work in total. But it's also small enough to reduce the cognitive load on yourself as you're
going through the material. So it's not too much information at once. At the same time in academy,
we have a small group learning environment. So you're learning, you have other people that
you're learning with. So if you have a question about something, chances are someone that you're
learning with will also have the same question because you're going through the materials at
the same pace. And then you have people like myself who are mentors and do the actual mentoring. And
we sort of guide the ship to make sure that like you're understanding the materials that we're
providing, but also giving you the flexibility to explore what you think is interesting to yourself
and sort of guiding you there. So you don't end up, you know, looking into a method that isn't
exactly what you want or is making your life a little bit more difficult. So that's our role
as the mentors to help facilitate your learning. And the other really nice thing about academy
to build on your motivation is we have industry specific data sets for your projects.
So it's not like a complete cookie cutter for everyone going through the experience. Depending
on the industry that you're in and the vertical that you're in, we will have a data set for you
in that industry. It might not be exactly the type of work you're doing for your job right now,
but it's close enough. And that's also to help bring a little bit more motivation. You might,
you know, look at the data a little bit differently. You might try to explore,
try a new package or go down another field. That's something that we didn't present to you
explicitly, but you still have the resources to go learn on your own. And then the mentor
sort of can help guide that self-learning process as well. So it's all about that long-term engagement
and all about, okay, so after 10 weeks, can you still stick with the skills that we're teaching
you? Like the actual skills of doing Python and data science, but also the skills of just learning
on your own. And so how does this actually look like in practice? Well, you have your academy
mentor. So here's Brendan. He's one of my colleagues. He'll play the role of a mock academy
mentor in this example. And then you have a small group of academy teammates. Typically right now,
it's all in the same group. So you'll notice that the position for these mock group mates,
which in reality are also my coworkers, they are all roughly in the same, working in the same domain.
And so as, again, as you're learning, you can have similar questions and you can help each other out.
And so here in this example, you might work on a project for academy comparing asthma treatments.
And this is something that you'll work on over the course of 10 weeks. So in this particular
example I'm showing you, it's primarily in the life sciences. But again, like I mentioned,
we can swap out asthma treatments for some other vertical or some other domain. And the example,
the demo that I'll sort of show you at the end shows you a stock pricing example
just to prove the point. And so what ends up happening is, well, we go through the process.
Well, we're teaching you data science. The first word of data science is data. So how do we get
data in? And so we'll show you how to import data into Pandas just so you have your data frame that
you can work with. Then we go through and show you how to explore data. Once you're done with
exploring, you might go wrangle and visualize or do a little bit more data processing. And then at
the end, your takeaway is going to be some type of report using Quarto for the Python course. And
that's what you'll end up at the very end is this report that goes through everything that you've
worked with over the last 10 weeks. So how do you go and accomplish this project?
There's several key components. And I'll show you how all these bits and pieces come together
before I'll actually show you a real demo of stuff of what's going on. So we have our big project.
It's broken up into 10 progressive milestones. And the milestones are kind of like bite-sized
pieces of a larger project. But we've broken it up into one week components. And this is one of
the mechanisms of getting you engaged over a longer period of time. And so Academy is 10 weeks
of actual working time. And then there's typically a couple of weeks in the middle, just as a break
or catch-up week as well. And so you have your Academy project. Overall, it has these five
different components. So you'll import some data, explore, wrangle, model. And then at the very,
very end in week 10, you put it all together into a single Cordo document for a report that
you can share with your colleagues. And that's sort of the end goal is to have a data science
report that you can share. We take these overall components, and that's what the 10 milestone
pieces become. And so in our Python course, these are the actual 10 milestone topics. So we have
Python basics, visualize, create select columns, et cetera, et cetera. And we have modeling and
sharing reports at the end. And I like to bring up, this is sort of where the challenges of just
teaching data science for Python starts to come up. Because if our goal is to teach you data science
in Python, just by nature of how the data science community evolved and grew out of Python, there's
a lot of on-ramping, like prior knowledge, that we need to be able to teach you for you to be able
to do and program the data science in Python. And so the way we've handled this is we sort of go
through some of the basics in week one, but we still try to get you something that you can do
by the end of week one that is like the main like, oh, this is really exciting. And the way we do
that is we sort of introduce a little bit of the report stuff to you, maybe a little bit of figure
generation, just so you are a little bit more motivated to continue on. And you have something
very tangible. And the other way that we've handled this is like larger topics, like just visualizing
and writing functions. Those are pretty heavy concepts, and especially writing functions. It's
a very heavy programming, like basic programming concept. The way that we've solved that problem is
we take, we introduce the concept in one week, and then over the next couple of weeks, we sort of
smear out some of the more advanced topics as well. So one, not only does that help you engage
with a more complex topic over a long period of time, but it also prevents this notion that like,
oh, I'm just in week three, and all of a sudden, I feel like I'm in my intro computer science course
again, and I'm no longer feeling like I'm making forward progress towards like a data science
milestone. And so that's sort of the challenges that we ended up facing while trying to put
together this curriculum. And I think this is something that seems to work, especially given
the time constraints. And also, if you think about what I mentioned before about reducing cognitive
load, we're also not trying to just dump everything on you, because then it's just too much
information for you to adequately retain and apply. And so there's always that balance there,
and I think we figured out a pretty good balance for that as well. Okay, so back to our academy
project. It's composed of 10 milestones, and then for each of our milestones, you go through a series
of tutorials. After the series of tutorials, you go and finish that little milestone chunk,
and then what we end up doing is having a group session where we all talk about what we did for
a milestone, and then that's where a lot of the mentoring, guiding, additional information, and
active learning comes into play. So I've talked about group sessions. This is a big component of
what makes academy special, and I think it really enriches the entire learning experience
for mentors and instructors, but also really the learners.
So the way this happens is we literally meet up on a Zoom call. There's going to be a milestone
that's presented. I will actually demo a real-life example at the very end, and you as the presenter,
you talk through what you did, and me as the mentor, I tried really hard not to share my
screen or take over your screen, and we talk you through your problems. And so in some sense,
you're also getting a feeling of what pair programming feels like because I tell you the
line and what you need to type and go through it. I can Google things for you in the background and
tell you how things work. I can tell you what to Google and point to you, tell you on the screen
what you're looking at, and so it becomes a very... You get some experience with pair programming
if you've never experienced it before, but it's also like you're in control, and I don't want
this to end up being like another lecture. It's supposed to be guided towards what you need help
with. And so again, like we do this across everyone in our group, and so that's why
the groups so far in academy have been relatively small, and it's because we need time for everyone
to be able to present their information, and there's a pretty good ratio between
students to mentors. And I think right now, that ratio is around seven, but we're tinkering with
bumping the ratio, so I don't know exactly what the final number will end up being if we do
bump up the numbers. But the other really most important thing is you're doing this with
your group members, and so that means that at the end of the academy experience, you have those
connections that you took this entire course with. And so if you continue to use Python,
you have other people that you can reach out to after you're done with the academy experience,
and because they've all started in the same place, you're more likely to feel comfortable
more comfortable speaking and reaching out to them because you've taken a course together,
and we've literally shared screens, and we've all seen the things that you struggled
with and how you've gotten better. So it all helps your own motivation, and it makes you
feel good that you have this other group of people that you can reach out to, because that's
the other thing a lot of times with learning new things is you're just afraid or you don't even
know who to ask for help. And so we're trying to build that support network in the course, and then
also hopefully this is a network that stays with you outside, and that's another way we try to
engage you or keep you engaged over long term, and that's where the learning really happens.
And so your academy project, it comes with multiple components for every given week.
You go and do the tutorials, you complete, and you personalize a milestone, and again, I'll show
you what that experience would be like at the end of this portion. And then we present this to the
group, and a lot of times people really do feel like this is where a lot of the really rich
conversations happen. Sometimes depending on the learning, the experiences of the group,
we get to talk about more complicated stuff. And even if you're a brand new beginner, just
seeing the more complicated stuff, knowing that it's possible, you know, as an absolute beginner,
that's really all you need to know is that this is possible. And then for someone who's a little
bit more experienced, they know how to actually go and implement it. And so there's, I actually
prefer it when our small groups have a mixed experience level, only because we get to have
just a more rich conversation for everyone to learn from. And then in the middle of the week,
we have a coworking session, just so you have blocked off time where the mentor is available
to answer your questions, essentially like office hours from the university perspective.
And then we have some form of asynchronous communication like Slack or Microsoft Teams.
And then if you post your questions, we can get back to you. We can share more complicated
blocks of code or other resources to help with your learning.
And then that's just one week. And then you rinse and repeat, do that for 10 weeks, and then
that is your academy experience. And so it is a very long engagement, but at the same time,
that's sort of the point because we've, hopefully I've convinced you that really, if you're not
really engaged for a long period of time, one, the chances of you using the materials is going
to be low, but you're probably not using the materials because you never fully understood
or learned it to begin with. And so this is a reason why the engagement and time commitment
is pretty high in academy. But in reality, it's not the worst thing in the world. It's just,
we're just keeping you thinking about the materials over at least 10 weeks. It's not that
you have to, it's not like this is like another part-time jobs worth of curriculum that you're
trying to use. So we've scoped that material out as best as we can to make it light on your
normal work schedule. Okay. So I want to actually take you through an example of what you will
expect to see. There's going to be some screenshots that I'll talk through, and then at the end,
I'll sort of mock up a sort of user to mentor interaction, and that will be in an actual live
environment. So as of right now, if you log into academy, this is something that you'll see.
This is the landing page. And right now I'm going to go through an example of, let's pretend we're
in week four. This week four milestone is about writing functions. And here are my four tutorials
that we're going to be talking about in this particular week. I'm going to pretend I'm going
to click the right functions tutorial. And this is what the tutorials actually look like in academy.
So we begin with a welcome statement to contextualize the need for writing functions
in this particular example. And then we have a page of the next slide will end up being
things to think about before you continue, just so just to prime your mind about like,
hey, don't forget we're going to end up using this stuff. Don't forget this type of syntax and notation.
And then we start the lesson. So yes, there is a bit of prose text involved in getting the lesson
started. But we then go into, okay, so here's functions. And here are parts of function behavior
and what it can do. And then right away, we try to get you to either see some code or run some code
as fast as possible. So here in the introduction phase, the main goal of we're trying to get you
to write your own custom functions. Well, that's really similar. You've worked with functions
this entire time. So here's an example of a function you've seen before. We're just going
to be able to, instead of random.random, write something that we've written ourselves.
The other thing that we try to do in academy, and this is one of the things that I find really
interesting when I first joined, is we don't hide away from showing you error messages. We will
literally put an error message in the tutorial and then have you, one, see the actual error message
and then talk to you about what the error message means and then have you fix that error message.
So here, for example, hey, you're calling random uniform in an incorrect way. This is the actual
error message that happens. Here's the actual code for you to go and tinker with to go and fix it.
And so, again, we're trying to break the cycle of you reading a bunch of text and just clicking
next because it's so easy to do. And so we either put in these exercises or what's known as
formative assessments, just to check that you've actually grasped that little bit of information
that we're trying to convey to you. And then, literally, the next thing that we end up showing
in this particular lesson is, oh, here's a mock function that we can write. And so this is just
code. So then what we do is we break down the code for you and tell you all of the different
components that end up happening. And then from there, we say, okay, let's stop you from reading
and let's get you to do something again. Let's just run the function that we just wrote. And so
here, this reiterates the process of, hey, remember before when we worked with random.random? Well,
that was a function that just existed somewhere that you can run, but we just wrote this function
ourselves and you can run it yourself just like every other function. And then the other style,
it's not that every single check-in or formative assessment is going to be a coding example. It's
even something as simple as a multiple choice question or true and false question. That's
really enough to sort of get you to reiterate or that little bit of practice of what's going on.
And so here you see, hey, we're actually calling the function object itself and resaving it.
We're not actually telling the function to run or call it. We're just referring to the actual
object of the function. And so this is trying to connect or we're trying to build the connections
from the earlier weeks of, like, remember how variable assignments were working? Well, we can
actually do the same thing with a function if we never actually go about and assign it to a variable.
And so what we also end up doing in our particular example is we add more complexity
by adding more input. So that's another thing that happens in this particular tutorial. And
then we have another set of formative assessments. So there is really a pattern that's going on here
is we try our best to not have you blindly read walls of text just to click continue. We really
want to be very active in you tinkering and playing with the code. And what's also neat
that I haven't shown it here in the slides here, but when you go and run some of these assessments,
we will show you the error message if there is an actual error message. But if there's a problem
with your code or your result, we try to do our best and tell you what you might have typed
incorrectly in your code. And so it is sort of like this, like, computer-assisted helper,
if you want to think of it that way. It's not an AI tool. It's actually looking at the results
and actually looking at the text that you're typing from the code to sort of give you pointers
in what went wrong. The other things that we end up doing is we provide tips. So it's not
everything is like a huge talking point that we want to do. And so we sometimes make little call
out boxes or like, hey, remember, this is actually a really important thing I want you to remember.
So we do have mechanisms to remind you of that information as well. And then there's also some
takeaways. So anytime there's like some weirdness with the output that you might not expect,
we don't just brush it under the rug. We try to bring it up and just so you understand what's
going on. And so we have these different boxes, and it's mainly for like additional information,
just so you know that we know that we understand that what you see might not be what you expect,
and this is why. If you understand it because you're a little bit more advanced, then great,
you learned a new bit of information. But if you're a brand new beginner,
it might be a little bit overwhelming. So that's also why we put different boxes just to be like,
hey, this is just a little bit of optional information. If you don't understand this,
we can bring this up with your mentor. But just understand that like there's other stuff going on,
but this is something that might be useful to you in the future. And the other thing that we
try to do is we try to be very realistic in how you will end up building up code and testing it
yourself, and then going back and sort of like rewriting it in a more like nicer, correct way.
So this is an example of like, hey, like, yeah, we didn't actually have to do those calculations
in separate steps. We could have done all of those calculations in one go, and that's okay as well.
And then what ends up happening is you end up with another format of assessment. And the question is
like, hey, does this code block actually produce an error? And then it really allows you the space
up here to explore and run the code to be able to answer this question. But what we also end up
doing is providing you the explanation. If you don't fully understand what's going on,
we do provide you that information. So in this particular case, we're trying to do some set of
calculations. We never really expected this to take a list of values, only single values. So
that's why there's an error. But again, in Academy style, we give you the place to actually see the
mistake and see the error message. Because sometimes these error messages do end up being
very cryptic. And so we want the skill, part of the skill that we want you to have is learning how
to read these error messages. So I'll skip ahead in this particular tutorial. Later on in this
particular tutorial, we talk about writing functions with multiple parameters. And so
here you'll see that like, hey, we've talked about, we've given you all of this function
code example. Let's slowly take back bits and pieces of the code and have you actively write
it in yourself, right? So from a very super beginner point of view, this is really nice
because you don't have to worry about the calculation right now. This particular task is,
do you know how to create a function with a particular name? And do you know how to provide
multiple inputs to a function that you're writing? We don't care about the stuff down here right now.
I don't want you to get bogged down with the calculation. I am currently only concerned with
the function signature. And so can you write that? And so we slowly will scaffold away code
and just to help build up the example. And again, this is one style or one method
that we can reduce the cognitive load of the learner as they're going through this information.
And so if you do something wrong, here's an example of like a piece of output that is
very custom and part of the academy like software infrastructure that tries to point to you like,
hey, maybe you swap some values around. And so that's one of the experiences that you can get.
And then the last example, I'll skip ahead again. So here's an example of a more summative piece
of practice of like, let's incorporate everything that we've learned. And you'll see here like a lot
of the code is gone. And so there's very little scaffolding happening. And then if you go through
more of the exercises, it just ends up being four underscores for you to be like, write your
function from scratch, right? So it really does guide you through and we slowly take away key
components for you to be one, like you're very active in this learning process. You have to go
and type this stuff in, in order to progress to the next part of the tutorial. And then so when
you're done with all of that, let's say I'm done with all of my week's milestones, lessons, I'll
go and create this, go and run this actual milestone. So I'll spend the time to go do it.
And then we'll meet up at group presentations and I'll talk about it. And so at this point,
I will go and demo an actual, what it might feel like as a learner. So right now, currently,
I'll play the role as a learner and I will say, and it'll be something like, all right, Daniel,
you're up. Let's talk about what you ended up going through today. So what I'll end up doing is
like, and remind, and if you're very new to Python, just know that like technically I'm mocking up a
week four experience. So there's might be some stuff if you're very new to Python that you might
not understand, but that's sort of part of the demo that I'm giving. All right. So this is my
week's milestone. What I did was I loaded up all of the stuff, libraries that we needed to run.
And then the first part was to load up this data set. So I used the read underscore CSV function
to read in this indices data set and I saved it to this variable called index.
And then here, the task in the milestone, it just asked me to like, write a function that
if it took this as input, return this as output. So this is the function that I wrote. I called it
read code symbol. It took a thing called symbol. And then like, if it matched all this stuff,
I saved it to a variable and at the end, I returned this variable. And then later on in the
assignment, it said like, oh, you just used this thing. So what I ended up doing was
using that function in apply to the symbols column. And then I got this new column down here
that recoded the variables. And then for my extension, what did I end up doing was I wrote
this function right here that took the symbol that I provided. So this function took in a data
set, a symbol I wanted, a column that I wanted. And if there was a cutoff, greater or equal to,
that's what the data frame returned. So that's what I did. It was a piece of code that subset
my data frame and returned a subset of data frame. And I ran it like this. So this was my data frame.
And then at the end, I got fewer rows. So that's what I expected at the end.
All right. So that's something, that's an example of what a student will present. So I will like
pretend I'm another person by swapping out my glasses. And me as a mentor, what would I do?
What I would do is I would say, hey, Daniel, that was great. You got through all of the
replication bits of our milestone. So you got the beginning bits. So there's some things I kind of
want to talk to you about, about your solution. So if you scroll down to where you wrote the
definition, yes, on line 56, you see here all of your if statements. The way you wrote this was
if symbol is that, set it to a variable, and then that's all great. And we can see that your
function is behaving as expected. The only thing that's sort of not ideal about the function that
you're writing with is if you remember the very first tutorial of this week, there was on if
statements. What's sort of missing in this function is you using the elif statement and the optional
else statement in here as well. Because the way your function is written right now is it needs to
go through every single one of your if statement checks, right? So if you had an example, you put
in the symbol of caret dji, it would find this, but it's still going through and checking every
single other if statement. And so in this particular function that you wrote, probably not a huge
performance issue, because it's a very simple calculation. But you can also imagine like if this
was, you know, like a 500 million rows, this function, the extra calculation and time this
function is taking is going to add up. And so ideally, I'll just do this, I'll just tell you or
walk you through one of them right now. So in line 61, if you turn that if statement into elif,
you should be able to run that function again. And it should at least behave properly. And then
the rest of your code should be able to run just like before. And it seems like it is.
Right? So you eventually want to make all your if statements elif statements, just so it's not
going and checking every single one. The way it is going to be written now is the first thing that
returns true, that's when it will stop checking the later conditions below. Right? And so it just
exits out of checking stuff a little bit earlier. And that could potentially save you a lot of time.
Cool. And then the other thing, if you scroll down to your apply example,
on line 87, yep. So what you see here is you use your function using apply on that column
called simple. So that's great. The only thing that's missing right here is we wanted you to
create a new column called name and you haven't done that. So remember, the way we do that is we
sort of pretend that the column name always existed. So you will end up typing at the
very beginning of line 87, you will type in indexes. And then you will use a set of pair
of square brackets. And then in there, you will put in name. And then you will set that equal to
the variable. And then that way, you will get a new column called indexes. And the reason why
you're not seeing it is because you just assigned made a change to the data frame. So what you want
to do is maybe in a new chunk or below, look at the indices data frame again. So if you scroll down
after you rerun it, now you have the name column down there. And then everything with the extension,
great job with going back and reviewing some of our week 2 materials and incorporating it
into your function. All right. So that's sort of an example of what a milestone session will feel
like. Again, like it's hard to mock this up as one person, but usually I'm saying all of those words
and then the learner is actually typing. So also part of that is to get the muscle memory in for
writing those bits of code. The other important thing of why I want the learner to write it as
well is because they, in the process of writing it, will also make typos. And so you're also, again,
forcing them to see the error message of the stuff that they're writing. And a lot of times,
if we have time in our group session, I actually let them make the error and I just leave it alone.
And then we talk about the error that they typoed that they made as well.
All right. So that's the demo. So now the question is, like, does this whole academy
experience work? The short answer is yes, it does. So out of the 600 students that we've
gone through the academy experience, 95% have completed academy. And then what's also really
nice is I think the denominator is 75. So 75 out of 75 people have said that they have been using
academy for work afterwards. And this is four to six months out, I think, is the actual cutoff that
we use. So we do have evidence that people are sticking around and using the materials that
we're teaching them. And hopefully, it's from the evidence-based learning that is sort of making
that happen. And it's not just us. Some people are talking about this online. So Keith finished
with us through Kellogg a couple of months ago. And he said this whole thing was a very great
experience. And James Wade from Dow Chemical Company is one of the people that have repeat
groups with us. And even they have reported that even six months after, 16 out of 17 say that they
still write code. And speaking with him a little bit more in detail about that one person, it's
mainly because that one person took on a more managerial role. So they're not coding as much.
So things seem to be working really well. So with that, I'll end here and then sort of just
take some questions. Yeah, let's see if I queued up these questions correctly.
I think I did. But good stuff. Two questions off the bat that I saw got upvoted in the Slido,
kind of together. One's about pricing and one is about individual learning paths. Let me see if I
can share my screen. Wow, that's like a lot. So pricing. Just in the interest of transparency,
I think our pricing is like a few thousand bucks per learner. And it does like scale and adjust
depending on the number of learners. So like really the best way to get the most accurate
pricing is to talk with our team and for us to understand what your situation is. But like a few
thousand bucks per learner is the quote that I think is like reasonable to give. And then like
related to individual learning tracks, like a core part of the Academy experience is group learning.
Like we believe in it strongly. So there aren't really individual learning paths right now through
the Academy experience. That said, some great resources that we put out like the R for Data
Science. I know it's not Python, but R for Data Science. The book is available online. You can see
that we're kind of working on the second edition. Highly recommend looking into our PositConf
workshops. These are skilling workshops that we offer at PositConf. And you can see that there's
like a bunch of different sessions that you can choose from, like really good content taught by
experts about specific things. So that's like another option. And then a little bit lighter,
like totally free. We have the Data Science Hangout every week, Thursday. You can add it
to your calendar, join, and like we'll just talk about things related to data science.
So back to your regularly scheduled programming with questions about Academy. Let me stop
sharing my screen. And let me see if I can queue up these questions.
Did that work? Yeah. Question. Does the curriculum touch on environments?
Daniel? Can you ask that question again? Does the curriculum touch on environments?
Oh, the actual curriculum does not touch on environments. Like we use them extensively
just to get Academy working. But we haven't really talked about computational environments
explicitly in the 10-week program. Having said that, depending on our interaction with you,
your company might already have an internal like Kinect server or Workbench server already set up.
We don't really set up the environment for you, but the mentor can sometimes
help guide you through like setting up stuff like that. It will definitely be more
not in the scope of the materials that we're teaching you. But if it's an environment-related
question, the mentor might be able to help you answer that. But it's not something we teach
explicitly. All right. Next question. It looks like the code is running in a browser. Does the
course include help with installing, updating Python or running it in an IDE? Yeah. So we
handle all of the installation stuff for you. The Academy course does not have a chapter on its own
on just getting everything installed for you. Having said that, I personally, when I
am pointing people to the how do you install Python guide, the Posit Solutions Engineering
folks has a guide out that uses PyEnv. And so if you are really looking into getting all of that
installed on your own computer locally, that's sort of the set of guides that I usually point
people towards. But yeah, Academy is very scoped in the we have set up everything for you,
and then we'll teach you the materials from there. Yes, it's tricky because like installation is very
difficult, but it's also like that's one of those things that like that could take potentially all
10 weeks just to get your computational environment working. And so and then you
completely lose out on the actual data science learning component.
Question. What is the actual time commitment per week for Academy?
The way we usually tell people is about so each tutorial a lot, one hour, not every tutorial
takes one hour. So it'll be four hours for the tutorials, spend another hour on the actual
milestone. So that's five hours. And then we have the meeting once a week, the group meeting.
So that's another hour. So that brings it to six. And then we have a working session,
just so you block off time to do your work. So do you count that as part of the tutorial or not?
I'm not sure, but we'll just add it to that. So seven. So somewhere around like 10 hours,
I would say is a pretty good estimate of how much time you might end up spending in Academy.
And then likewise, and I've seen it, like, you know, there are people who sort of try to go
through all the content the night before and try to cram in your milestone. It happens, life happens.
But you have to be careful when that happens, when you try to cram in all that information,
because again, this is all about long term retention, and not just, you know, getting
things done in the short term. So if you plan for 10 hours, you should most likely be okay.
And we work with if it's a business to business interaction, we do work with your employer and
your supervisors to make sure that they know that you are going through this process. And it's not
just you working through this on your own trying to find regular work hours for.
You touched on this a bit in the presentation. What is the experience and relationship
like with the mentors? I don't know if you have anything to add there.
The I mean, the mentors are pretty much were available through Slack, for a lot of questions
that you might be having, you do, depending on, you know, your own works, like NDA, like, you can't
really talk to us about your actual actual work and your actual work data. Everything really does
have to be in context of something you've seen Academy. But if you can mock up a work example,
and into a very simple question that is relevant to what we're talking about in Academy,
then those questions are usually pretty valid that to ask your mentor. So it's also a pretty
informal, very fluid and informal interaction with your mentor. The more important thing is
your mentor isn't really like a traditional university instructor, where it's like,
I just show up and you just expect me to lecture to you for, you know, our group period,
it's really like, you have to come in, show me what you've done. And then I point to you
about how you can make things better, or you already have questions for me about what you got
stuck in. What is the onboarding slash intake process for Academy cohorts?
That, that is not something I personally know about. The onboarding, I know it happens
a couple of months in advance, there's always legal documents that need to get filled out.
And then there's also the process of making sure everyone in the group has some, like,
agreement with whoever they're working with, that they need time blocked off to make this happen.
I've seen entire groups in a company all together join one Academy cohort, but I've also seen
people scatter across different departments join as a group as well. So, but beyond that,
I don't know the actual paperwork process. But it's not like, I want to do this next week,
and you get it next week. There's, I know that it's not like, it's not like that.
It's not like that. Yeah, well, we'll post the full answer to that somewhere.
This was a good question. I want to make sure we get to it. Do you have something for advanced
R users coming to Python, quote unquote, false beginners? We have, is it advanced R users coming?
Oh, okay. Yes. So, what I presented right now is our first iteration of the Python course. But yes,
we do plan on having, like, a more, like, advanced Python stuff with a little bit more of the
programming concepts, not just focused on data science or data literacy principles.
The other, and the reason for that, or why you should probably believe that that's a true
statement is we're also currently in the works of creating, like, an advanced R course as well.
And so, the Python stuff is, I'm on, like, the content writing team. So, we're sort of still
refining the intro one. But as soon as that's done, we can write the next series of courses.
So, there will be more types of courses happening in the future. But I just don't
know the actual timetable for those, when those get released.
I think we have time for another question or two, and then we can wrap up.
This is a good one. I've seen Academy information about relevant curriculum
for certain industries. Could you expand? I know that you touched on that a little already, Daniel, but...
Oh, yeah. So, what ends up happening is the actual content stuff that you see. So, let me scroll back.
So, for example, this function writing tutorial. This tutorial is generic enough that it will be
what most or everyone will see. What we can do is in the actual milestone component,
the example that I demoed was an actual stock pricing example. But if you're in life sciences
and you want to work on the cancer dataset, we would swap out the milestone portions for that
cancer dataset. So, you don't have to worry about, like, why do I care about stock prices to write a
function when I work in healthcare or something? You'll actually get, like, a cancer-tumor dataset
for your milestones. So, that's where the customization comes in. We work with you,
figure out what your actual industry is. We have a bunch of datasets in different verticals,
and we will try to find the right dataset for you, and then we swap that into the milestone.
And then we swap that into the milestone as a way to keep everyone engaged and things relevant.
I think we got through most all the questions. One came in on the chat.
Have you thought about an academy for training mentors?
Yeah, there is. I can't say for sure, but there is something in terms of mentor training
and stuff like that. And occasionally, I think we have job postings looking for academy mentors as
well. So, there is that process of becoming a mentor and then getting some experience as a
mentor running some of these groups. And that's all being worked on. But I don't know when the
actual curriculum is going to be finished. And then a final comment. Consider Julia in
the future, please. Multiple exclamation points. Yeah. I'm sure it's being considered. I just know
me personally. I don't know Julia, so I will not be able to be on that content writing team. But,
yeah. Especially with Corto having Python and R and Julia as an observable as, like,
first class support. I'm sure it will be on the docket, but I can't. There's no way. I can't put
a date on that. And I'm sure no one on my team listening will want me to say a date or put an
actual date on that. Yeah. So, just we can wrap up. We're at the top of the hour. Great stuff,
Daniel. One hour of awesome information. Just as a reminder, academy for groups of learners,
lots of questions about, like, self-learning things. Again, these resources, we'll package
them up and send them out somewhere. But R for Data Science, the book, PositCom, we have,
you know, skilling workshops from very beginner stuff to more advanced stuff. And
please join the Data Science Hangout every Thursday at noon for some more casual discussion.
But we'll wrap up there. As a reminder, the presentation will be available on YouTube,
like, as of now. So, if you want to send the recording or watch it again, it's available
at this link. We hope you join future sessions. And thanks a lot, Daniel.